---
unlisted: true
---
# H-View

:::danger
At this time, the application is not currently available as a downloadable executable, and is more directed towards other developers
who might want to give it a try.

You will need to build the application yourself.
:::

This application has two parts:

### External Expressions Menu

*External Expressions Menu* is a Unity Editor tool that relies on the VRChat SDK.

When the avatar is being built, it will write a large JSON file in the `AppData/LocalLow/VRChat/vrchat/OSC/<userid>/Hai/` folder.

If you have Modular Avatar or NDMF, use **Tools > NDM Framework > Manual bake avatar** to generate the JSON file without
needing to build your avatar (it might not work if you have stuff generated by VRCFury, but I'm not sure about this).

This file contains the following:
- The entire Expressions Menu, including all of its icons,
- All Contacts that have parameters,
- All PhysBones that have parameters,
- The entire Expressions Parameters list.

This tool can be downloaded through VCC/ALCOM through in **[my listing](/docs/products/listing)** (you must enable prerelease packages to see it),
and the source code is at `https://github.com/hai-vr/external-expressions-menu` if you want to include this package yourself for modification.

:::warning
**The JSON file contains the icons as PNGs**, encoded into base64 strings.

For this reason you should not share the JSON file with other users as it contains graphical assets that might have been granted to you
under a license that would not permit redistribution.

Treat this JSON file no differently to an avatar file.
:::

### H-View

*H-View* is one of my personal OSC Query applications that I use for debugging.

The source code is available at **[https://github.com/hai-vr/h-view](https://github.com/hai-vr/h-view)**.

You will need to build this application yourself.

Once launched, it will:
- Open an OSC Query service,
- Open an OSC service,
- Communicate with VRChat using OSC and OSC Query,
- Read any file on-demand located in `AppData/LocalLow/VRChat/vrchat/OSC/` that start with `ExternalExpressionsMenu_`.

:::warning
The application currently detects avatar changes, but not the current avatar when the application starts.

You will need to reload into your avatar after launching the application.
:::