---
date: 2024-11-29T13:00
---
import {HaiVideo} from "/src/components/HaiVideo";

# ✨ FaceTra Shape Creator V0.9.0

A new version of FaceTra Shape Creator has been released.

There are a lot of changes, described in full in the [changelog](/docs/changelogs/facetra-shape-creator#0.9.0).

In summary:
- The performance of the application in Edit mode has been significantly improved.
- Improvements in tailoring:
  - You can now enable Tailoring and override push and pulling vertices per-shape.
  - The result of tailoring can now be exported into a new file.
  - Tailoring can now optionally use the same blendshapes as those from Adaptive file.
- Improvements in shapes:
  - Most mouth shapes can now have blendshapes added to them. They will use the Mouth Divider.
  - The functionality to push and pull vertices is now optional per-shape, and can be turned off entirely.
  - Upper teeth can now be included in the deformation of Jaw Open, Jaw Left/Right, and Jaw Forward.
- Improvements in the calibration process:
  - You can now define a position offset (i.e. when a model has been re-saved with high heels).
  - You can now explicitly define base blendshapes that will serve as the rest pose of the face.
  - Vertex selection UI has been improved.
  - The blendshape used in the calibration process to define Mouth, Teeth, and Tongue vertices is now separate from the blendshape used in Jaw Open.
  - Add a new construction line "Eye Visualization", used to visualize the Eye divider.
- Add new shape: Nose Sneer Left/Right.

<HaiVideo src="/updates/img/2024-11-25-p0-6JaYH1MJ0A.mp4"></HaiVideo>

:::warning
FaceTra now shares code with Starmesh under the *MeshLib* package, which is included in both products.

If you use Starmesh, please update Starmesh to V1.6.0.
:::

🔍 [View changelog](/docs/changelogs/facetra-shape-creator#0.9.0)
