# ⚠️ Advance notice for Animator As Code V1

Hello,

In February 2022, I had released *Animator As Code* version 0 (V0).

During 2023, I had started to move towards *Animator As Code* to version 1 (V1), in order to do the following breaking changes:
- Pull major contributions from [**@galister**](https://github.com/galister) which:
  - **Adds support for sub-state machines**, which is important because it enables the creation of states that evaluate multiple transitions within one frame,
which is not possible to do without sub-state machines (with one exception).
    - This trait is already extensively used in *ComboGestureExpressions V2* and above.
  - Share functionality of state and sub-state machines.
  - Share functionality of Int and Float parameters together.
- Make it usable in **non-VRChat** avatar projects. 
  - VRChat-related functionality is now exposed as extension functions in a separate package.
  - Also, separate destructive functions and non-destructive functions.
  - Since this no longer requires a VRChat project, this also means it may now be usable in VRChat world projects.
- Make it more usable in non-destructive components.
  - It is already in use in *Prefabulous* and *Vixen*.
- Move to packages, for distribution using VCC (and now, ALCOM).

My own projects, such as *ComboGestureExpressions* V3, *Vixen*, and *Prefabulous for VRChat*, already use *Animator As Code* V1.

The project has stalled for long enough, I think it's finally time to give it the last push for release.

## V0 and V1 can be installed in the same project

One of the goals of *Animator As Code* V1 is to **preserve the ability for V0 and V1 to be installed in the same project**,
as *Animator As Code* V0 is currently being used in the wild.

Therefore, installing *Animator As Code* V1 will not interfere with *Animator As Code* V0.

Even then, *Animator As Code* V0 and V1 are almost identical in syntax, so [migrating from V0 and V1 should not be a challenge](/docs/products/animator-as-code/migrating-v0-to-v1).

## There may be some breaking changes during the beta

*Animator As Code V1* will be entering a beta phase before release, which should ideally last a month.

Beta versions of *Animator As Code* V1 will only be available as **pre-release packages**, and they may contain breaking changes between two beta versions.

The objective of the Beta is to capture the last inconsistencies in the API, including naming conventions, method signatures, exposed functions and classes,
public fields vs public properties, etc. It will also be to complete the documentation, both on this site, and inline documentation.

After *Animator As Code* V1 comes out of beta in 1.1.0, there should not be any more breaking changes.

## Features

- As mentioned before, you can create [**sub-state machines**](/docs/products/animator-as-code/functions/base#layer-aacfllayer).
- It is now possible to build Unity [**BlendTree** assets using a fluent interface](/docs/products/animator-as-code/functions/base#blend-trees-aacflblendtree).
- *Animator As Code for VRChat* supports for **VRCAnimatorPlayAudio** through the `AacFlState.Audio(AudioSource or string, ...)` function,
  [which takes a lambda expression as a parameter](/docs/products/animator-as-code/functions/vrchat#audio-editing-aacvrcfleditanimatorplayaudio).
- As *VRCAvatarParameterDriver* has evolved over the years, you can now build multiple **VRCAvatarParameterDriver** behaviours on the same state
  through the `AacFlState.Driving(...)` function, [which takes a lambda expression as a parameter](/docs/products/animator-as-code/functions/vrchat#driver-editing-aacvrcfleditavatarparameterdriver).
