# ☀️ Generate Twist Bones (Prefabulous V1.11)

A new component, [Generate Twist Bones (Alpha)](/docs/products/prefabulous/universal/generate-twist-bones), has been added to Prefabulous.

### New component: [Generate Twist Bones (Alpha)](/docs/products/prefabulous/universal/generate-twist-bones)

This component will generate twist bones, which improves the look of the elbow joint by twisting the part of the lower arm that is closer to the elbow.

It creates new twist bones with constraints, and automatically repaints the bones weights of all meshes of the avatar which use that bone.

:::warning
**🚧🚧🚧 This component is currently in an alpha phase. 🚧🚧🚧**

At the moment, it only fully supports meshes that are part of the base mesh armature.

The current version **will not** be able to generate twist bones for additional meshes used by [VRCFury Armature Link](https://vrcfury.com/components/armature-link/),
and **may not** be able to generate twist bones for additional meshes used by [Modular Avatar Merge Armature](https://modular-avatar.nadena.dev/docs/reference/merge-armature).

Both are intended to be supported in the future, but it's significantly harder to do so.
The component is still released in this state of development as it is beneficial for the bare skin of your avatar.

Thank you for your understanding.
:::

<video controls muted width="816">
    <source src={require('/docs/products/prefabulous/img/ByAzbmmx4w.mp4').default}/>
</video>

<video controls muted width="816">
    <source src={require('/docs/products/prefabulous/img/auto-twist-f.mp4').default}/>
</video>

🗒️ [Open documentation](/docs/products/prefabulous/universal/generate-twist-bones)

### About Prefabulous 2.0

This update does not include the [Prefabulous Universal / Prefabulous for VRChat](/updates/2024/04/05/p0) package split yet,
as that particular update needs more regression testing to ensure the stability of existing projects.
