---
date: 2024-08-19T15:20
unlisted: true
---

# ✨ Double Hip Tracker V1.3.0 (⛔ Planned)

This update introduces two changes in the behaviour of the double trackers:
- They *should* no longer fly away when both trackers are lost.
- We have an additional method to detect trackers flying off.

Changes:
- Add **"Freeze when both trackers are lost"** checkbox: If both trackers of any given double tracker are lost, then the tracker will freeze in place.
  - This new behaviour may be more in line with VRChat's current handling of single trackers being lost. The previous behaviour used to be that the tracker
    would fall back to the degraded data of the last known working tracker.
  - On previous versions, this checkbox would be effectively OFF. The default behavior is now for this checkbox to be ON.
- Add **a new method to detect when trackers are flying off**, even when SteamVR hardware trackers are reporting themselves as healthy.
  - This is accomplished by recording the average distance that separate the two trackers.
  - If the average distance diverges too much, we will try to guess which of the two trackers is the healthiest, and use that until the other tracker comes back into range.
  - This method runs in addition to the previous one, and does not replace it.
  - This new method can be toggled individually. The default behavior is for this checkbox to be ON.
- Add **Auto-detect hip trackers** checkbox: You can now disable automatic detection of hip trackers.
  - When you disable automatic detection, it works identically to the Double Chest Tracker.
  - You can use this if you want to always use the same two hip tracker serial numbers without needing to shake your hips, but beware,
    you may have to press the "Realign Trackers" button if you happen to wear your double hip tracker belt after starting the application.
- The UI is now organized across tabs.
  - *Align trackers* tab: For normal use. It has the buttons to realign trackers.
  - *Edit trackers* tab: Configure which Double Trackers are enabled, and their configuration.
  - *Other* tab: Provides rarely used options.
- Add vertical offset options: Some users have been having issues with the OSC tracker having some sort of vertical offset.
  - No solution had been found for this, so the option to offset the tracker vertically stays.