# ⚠️ Advance notice for VRChat Creator Companion changes

Starting from the 1st of February 2025, [my repository listing](/docs/products/listing) will no longer
officially support the *VRChat Creator Companion* package manager. Instead, it will support the ALCOM package manager.

## What happens if I continue using the *VRChat Creator Companion* to install this repository?

In many cases you *might* still be able to install the packages from the *VRChat Creator Companion*.

However, if there are any issues occuring within the *VRChat Creator Companion* during the installation process,
**then it will be considered to be an issue within the *VRChat Creator Companion* software itself**,
and workarounds will no longer be provided.

## What should I do if I still use the *VRChat Creator Companion*, and an error occurs in VCC?

If you still use the VRChat Creator Companion, and an error occurs in VCC during the installation of some packages from this repository,
then:

## Install the ALCOM package manager

I recommend that you install the ALCOM package manager.

[ALCOM](https://vrc-get.anatawa12.com/alcom/) ([GitHub](https://github.com/vrc-get/vrc-get)) is a community-created package manager. It is functionally equivalent to the *VRChat Creator Companion*,
but **contains fixes** to many bugs that had been reported in the *VRChat Creator Companion* for years.

### Report the VCC bugs to VRChat

Report the bugs you have encountered in VCC directly to VRChat Inc. through either the feedback forum, or the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/vrchat-community/creator-companion/issues).

The bug you have encountered has most likely been reported already in 2022 or 2023.

## What if I already use ALCOM?

There is no action to do if you already use ALCOM. Check out [anatawa12's GitHub page](https://github.com/anatawa12). 
