---
unlisted: true
---

# ✨ FaceTra Shape Creator V0.8

### New Construction Line: [Blush Modifier Selection](/docs/products/facetra-shape-creator/construction-lines#optional-blush-modifier-selection)

Many avatars have blendshapes hidden inside the head to make the character blush.

However, when you squint, or when you puff your cheeks, these blush blendshapes will visibly clip through your face expressions.

To address this, Blush Modifier Selection is a new construction line, which can only be selected using blendshapes (it is not a traditional vertex selection).
It can be left empty.

When blendshapes are added to the Blush Modifier Selection, the blendshape will be simulated to be active, so that they will be moved by the following shapes:
- Cheek Squint
- Cheek Puff

Unfortunately, this will not work with all avatar bases. The density of the blush mesh needs to be similar (or half as similar) to the face mesh itself. If it's a gigantic polygon, it will not work so well.

### Convert from Unified Expressions to ARKit

Functionality almost identical to [Prefabulous Convert Blendshape Conventions](/docs/products/prefabulous/universal/convert-blendshape-conventions) has been added natively to FaceTra Shape Creator, in the Output section.
This only affects blendshapes that FaceTra creates, and will not affect any other non-face tracking related blendshapes.
- Contrary to Prefabulous, the VRChat SDK is not required.
- This allows you to export blendshapes using the ARKit naming convention. It will still be a bit messy as FaceTra creates many more blendshapes than ARKit needs, such as left/right variants for blendshapes that do not have left/right variants in ARKit.
  - The blendshapes will only be converted when entering Play mode, or baking the avatar using NDMF, or preparing a Resonite bake using FaceTra. Edit mode will still display the blendshapes using the Unified Expressions naming convention.
