---
date: 2024-08-19T10:30
unlisted: true
---

# ☀️ Animator As Code V1

Animator As Code V1 is leaving Alpha, starting from V1.1.0.
- *Animator As Code V1 - VRChat* is leaving Alpha.
- *Animator As Code V1 - VRChat Destructive Workflow* is leaving Alpha.
- *Animator As Code V1 - Modular Avatar functions* is leaving Alpha.

Animator As Code V1 can now be safely used in public projects that wish to do so.

## Compatibility with projects that contain Animator As Code V0

Installing Animator As Code V1 on a project that already uses Animator As Code V0 will not override it.
Both installations will act as separate, non-conflicting installs.

For example, the following projects contain Animator As Code V0, and will continue to work properly:
- [Animator As Visual (pimaker)](https://github.com/PiMaker)
- [FaceEmo (suzuryg)](https://suzuryg.github.io/face-emo/)

In fact Animator As Code V1 has already been extensively used in my own tools (Prefabulous, ComboGestureExpressions, Vixen).

## Changes compared to 1.0.99xx

Animator As Code V1.1.0 contains breaking changes compared to Animator As Code (Alpha) V1.0.99xx.

Compared to 1.0.99xx:
- Commit breaking changes to fix inconsistencies in the API:
    - (BREAKING) AacFlController.AnimatorController is no longer settable.
    - (BREAKING) Replace public readonly fields with get-only properties.
    - (BREAKING) Rename AacFlSettingObjectReferenceKeyframes to AacFlSettingKeyframesObjectReference.
    - (BREAKING) Make constructors non-public.
        - WARNING: The AacFlSettingKeyframes constructor will be made private/internal in V1.2.0.
        - For compatibility reasons it remains public for the duration of V1.1.x.
- Fix inconsistencies in the API:
    - Rename AacFlState.WithMotionTime to AacFlState.MotionTime.
    - Rename *Percent to *Normalized.
    - Add additional single-valued and array overloads.
    - Make Component[] methods null-element safe.
    - Add AacFlSettingCurveObjectReference.WithUnit to be on-par with AacFlSettingCurve.
    - Add AacFlSettingCurveColor.WithUnit to be on-par with AacFlSettingCurve.
- Inline documentation pass.
- Update LICENSE: Add galister for major contributions.
- Fix AacFlState.WithCycleOffset(AacFlFloatParameter floatParam) now correctly enables the parameter.
- Accomodate new VRCAnimatorPlayAudio requirements:
    - Nodes need to know the Animator Root, so that relative paths can be resolved during the creation of State behaviours (i.e. Relative path of an AudioSource).
    - Nodes need to have the ability to create a New Behaviour, even if one already exists.

## Future breaking changes in V1.2.0

The AacFlSettingKeyframes constructor will be made private/internal in V1.2.0.
- For compatibility reasons it remains public for the duration of V1.1.x.
- It is already marked as obsolete in V1.1.X.

This is likely going to be the last breaking change in V1's lifetime.
