import {HaiVideo} from "/src/components/HaiVideo";

# ⚙️ Animator As Code V1.2.0 / Animator As Code VRChat V1.1.2 / Prefabulous for VRChat V2.2.0 / Auto-reset OSC config V1.1.6 / ComboGestureExpressions V3.3.1

As I am no longer focusing on VRChat content creation, the following packages will now install in ALCOM without warnings,
even if VRChat introduces breaking changes:

- Animator As Code - VRChat V1.1.2
- Animator As Code - VRChat Destructive Workflow V1.1.2
- Animator As Code - Modular Avatar V1.1.2
- Prefabulous for VRChat V2.2.0
- Auto-reset OSC config V1.1.6
- ComboGestureExpressions V3.3.1

VRChat Avatars package upper bound dependency raised to VRChat SDK999.

## Prefabulous for VRChat V2.2.0

- Now requires Animator As Code 1.2.0 or above, in order to use the asset container provider API.
- Add support for cross-application build compatibility being introduced in NDMF 1.8.
    - This explicitly prevents the VRC-specific plugins from being executed in Resonite builds.

## Animator As Code V1.2.0

- Add support for third-party asset container management.
  - In preparation for the introduction of [IAssetSaver in NDMF 1.6.0](https://github.com/bdunderscore/ndmf/releases/tag/1.6.0),
    add the ability to delegate the management of the asset container to a third party.
    - No new dependencies are added.
    - By default, the behaviour of Animator As Code is the same as V1.1.0.
  - Add new optional field `AacConfiguration.AssetContainerProvider` to specify an asset container provider.
  - Add new interface `IAacAssetContainerProvider` to abstract asset container management.

The above changes have been contributed by **[kb10uy (KOBAYASHI Yū)](https://github.com/kb10uy)** (first contribution).

The NDMF example in the [Getting started](/docs/products/animator-as-code/getting-started) page has been updated to demonstrate
integration with this new API.

As specified in the changelog for the official release of Animator As Code V1, breaking changes had been planned, and will be applied starting this version:
- AacFlSettingKeyframes constructor is now private.
  - For compatibility reasons, it was public for the duration of V1.1.x, and was already marked as obsolete in V1.1.x.
- The methods AacFlBase.InternalConfiguration and AacFlBase.InternalDoCreateLayer are now private.
  - For compatibility reasons, it was public for the duration of V1.1.x, and was already marked as obsolete in V1.1.x.
  - The class AacAccessorForExtensions replaced them.

These breaking changes are meant to be the last breaking changes for the lifetime of Animator As Code V1.

- Make AAC 1.2.0 a requirement, as AAC 1.2.0 adds additional argument checks for compatibility with Vixen.
- Include contributions from @TayouVR and @yewnyx that make this package better installable via git url.
