---
date: 2025-10-03T17:51
---

# ✨ Lightbox Viewer 2.5.0-beta.1

Lightbox Viewer has been updated to support URP projects.

Lightbox Viewer is now compatible with the following render pipeline configurations:
- BIRP Light Probes.
- BIRP VRCLightVolumes by RED_SIM.
- URP Adaptive Probe Volumes.
- URP Light Probes.

Features:
- Detect and support URP projects. When the current project uses URP:
    - Don't suggest installing the Post-Processing V2 package.
    - Never switch to VRCLightVolumes, even if that package is installed in the project.
    - Switch to a different scene based on whether the Quality settings use Light Probes instead of Adaptive Probe Volumes.
    - Detect when Quality settings change, and switch between the Light Probes scene and the Adaptive Probe Volumes scene accordingly.

Changes:
- Attempt an optimization that removes the need for copying the texture from the GPU to the CPU.
- Change Edit mode strategy for performance:
    - Previously, Edit Mode was copying the avatar every frame, so that we don't accidentally cause the avatar to be modified.
    - This change now copies the avatar to a hidden GameObject in the hierarchy and marked non-saved, if the reference to the Object To View does not change.
    - Use object change events to detect when anything changes in the scene. If there is any change that pertains to a non-transform, we destroy the copied object and create a new one.
    - This copied object is moved 10_000 units downwards between render cycles.
    - Don't disable the original avatar between render cycles, because enabling the avatar is slow.
    - In the copy, remove the Animators, because they take time to bind and we don't need them.

Fixes:
- Try to fix an issue where the depth was affecting how the view was rendered in a Unity 6.2 Basis project.
