HVR.UGC
=====

# 0.0.2

New:
- Add component *HVRUGC Belonging*, which will be used by HVR.Core to spawn personal belongings (items that disappear
  when the user that spawned them leaves).

Changes:
- HVR.UGC will no longer prevent NDMF from running on Play Mode when it is installed in a VRC project:
    - If HVR.UGC is installed in a VRC project, *HVR Avatar* will no longer create a *HVRUGC MarkAutoprocess* component.
    - If HVR.UGC is installed in a VRC project, the code inside *HVRUGC MarkAutoprocess* component will not run.
- Add *Collision Mesh Blendshapes* configuration in *HVRUGC Avatar*.
    - In HVR.Core, collision meshes are now generated by using all blendshape weights with a value of 0 by default, unless *Collision Mesh Blendshapes* sets it.
    - Previously, collision meshes were generated using the actual blendshape weights from the SkinnedMeshRenderer, but since the initial blendshape weights of
      a SkinnedMeshRenderer are often set to match the default clothing, this is annoying. This change assumes that the avatar with no blendshapes is closest
      to the actual collision meshes to be generated.
- When entering Play Mode, *HVRUGC Avatar* will now create its own viewpoint if it didn't have one configured.

Internal:
- The code for *HVRUGC Avatar* and *HVRUGC Belonging* is now shared.
- Tracks commit `319c04f9423a62d51d5f61f5dfa15b2ea610e5eb` in HVR.Core.
- Released at https://github.com/hai-vr/hvr-ugc/releases/tag/0.0.2

# 0.0.1

Initial package.

- Tracks commit `15501db25749f3d0c4cadceed6f3d468b0ed16b5` in HVR.Core.
- Released at https://github.com/hai-vr/hvr-ugc/releases/tag/0.0.1
